# Changelog

This package is currently in 'beta', in that it is in use by several users, but you may run into situations that simply haven't come up in use or testing so far. Feel free to submit an issue (and preferably suggest a solution).

## [Unreleased]

No changes since last release.


## [0.1.9] - 2021-12-08

### Added
  - catch keyboard interrupt and terminate gracefully
  - match grouping: for pre-defined groups (groups.json could be customised to add groups), matching files will cause files in their groups to be matched as well; for example, when matching `*.shp` (part of the 'ArcGIS shape files' group), other files in that group like `*.shx`, `*.prj` etc. will also be matched  

## [0.1.8] - 2021-11-17

### Added
  - specify `--test` for a simple test mode, which won't actually start any archiving or unboxing, but will instead perform all matching and checking and report just the command it would run
  - specify `-re <expr>`/`--regex <expr>` for regular expression matching; this will attempt to match the path of globbed objects and skip them if they don not match; note that the path is not just the filename, but also not the absolute path, it is the path as generated by `Path().glob()` 

### Fixed
  - ANSI code support was assumed, but did not work correctly on Windows Command prompt; OS-specific check and fix are now applied at startup

## [0.1.7] - 2021-11-16

### Added
  - reporting finished instead of current (including running) and separately reporting running (dlv)

### Fixed
  - Misspelling in help, missing newline

## [0.1.6] - 2021-11-15

### Added
  - an `-el`/`--error_log` (alias `-el`/`--error_log`) option now allows error (and info and warning) messages to be captured in a file, instead of writing them to the console. Of course, you can also just redirect standard error, but this option is there for convenience
  - `--unzip_multi` alias for `--unbox_multi`, analogous to the `--unzip` alias for `--unbox`

### Changed
  - when specifying `--unbox_multi`, you no longer have to specify `--unbox`. However, if you specify `--unbox` specifically as False, `--unbox_multi` will be ignored (i.e. no contradiction allowed and `--unbox` is stronger).
  - when logging an error, the error message itself (from 7za.exe) will also be logged on the following lines

### Fixed
  - previously if all files being archived were locked, resulting in an empty archive, `py7za-box` would fail listing metadata on the archive 

## [0.1.5] - 2021-11-12

### Added
  - Support for other file formats in py7za-box, which previously would cause problems when using anything other than .zip (as ZipFile was used for metadata)
  - `Py7za.list_archive` class method to obtain metadata from any archive format supported by 7za, or obtain metadata and a list of archive content details. 

### Changed
  - (BREAKING) default file format is no longer .zip but .7z for py7za-box; pass a 7zip parameter like `-7 "-tzip"` to revert to previous behaviour  

### Fixed
  - previously, py7za-box would crash if options were passed to 7za to write 7z or another archive format that wasn't .zip

## [0.1.4] - 2021-11-12

### Added
  - `-p`/`--parallel` (formerly `-c`/`--cores`) now accepts '<n>x' as a multiplier to the number of cores, e.g. with 8 available cores, if `2x` is passed, 16 processes will be spawned in parallel.
  - `-l`/`--log` is a new option to which you can pass a path to a log file and every completed operation will be logged to that file with a timestamp, name of the associated archived and the size of both the contents and the archive, in both human-readable format (string, e.g. 1.2 KiB) and bytes (integer). 

### Changed
  - (BREAKING) renamed `-c`/`--cores` to `-p`/`--parallel`, to be more accurate and avoid confusion about how this actually works. The default 0 still uses the number of available cores.

### Fixed
  - Previously, FileNotFoundErrors and failed 7za execution (return code > 0) would not be caught and cause the operation to fail; now an error is reported, but the process continues. 

## [0.1.3] - 2021-11-11

### Added
  - during startup, py7za-box reports the number of matched files as they are found, before actually starting archiving; previously, the application would appear to be hanging while collecting large numbers of matched files

### Changed
  - default, list and verbose updates now include a timestamp at the start; py7za-box also reports total time taken once it completes.
  - running status updated to be more clear "current / total \[file size from/into archive size\]"

## [0.1.2] - 2021-11-11

### Added
  - when reporting completion, py7za-box now also reports the number of skipped files.

### Fixed
  - using UNC paths could cause py7za-box to fail, due to shlex.split() issues; a workaround to `shlex.split` is `py7za.arg_split`, [arg_split](py7za/_py7za.py).

## [0.1.1] - 2021-11-10

### Fixed
  - help text formatting
  - refactoring errors, invalidating 0.1.0

## [0.1.0] - 2021-11-10

### Changed
  - (breaking) by default, py7za-box unboxing will now not unzip matched archives that contain multiple files
  - (breaking) by default, py7za-box single file boxing will no longer match and archive existing archives (.zip, .7z, .gz, etc.)  

### Added
  - an option to unbox multiple files `-um` / `--unbox_multi` to override the new standard behaviour for py7za-box
  - an option to match and archive existing archives `-za` / `--zip_archives` to override the new standard behaviour for py7za-box

## [0.0.8] - 2021-11-01

### Added
  - default now prints status underneath list, and `list` output mode only lists completed results (as default previously did)
  - comments on several functions and classes

### Fixed
  - ANSI codes for clearing a line when updating status

## [0.0.7] - 2021-10-28

### Added
  - support for multiple glob expressions, e.g. `py7za-box *.txt *.csv`

### Fixed
  - outdated and broken examples in help text corrected;
  - (major) extracting with 'x' instead of 'e' (previously, zipped directories would incorrectly extract)

## [0.0.6] - 2021-10-26

### Fixed
  - small mistakes in help text corrected;
  - with `--output verbose`, py7za-box now correctly prints INFO lines with the full 7za command.

## [0.0.5] - 2021-10-25

### Fixed
  - relative import of version (running script in development as `package.module`, instead of full script path name);
  - (non-functional) refactoring and suppression of irrelevant warnings.

## [0.0.4] - 2021-10-24

### Added
  - `nice_size` for pretty-printing file sizes;
  - output modes default, verbose, status and quiet (previous default);
  - overwrite modes all, skip (default), rename_new, rename_existing.

### Fixed
  - passing `-y` as a default option, previously 7za could get stuck in interactive mode;
  - passing cli options to 7za when unboxing, previously only passed scripted options, ignoring `-7 <options>`.

## [0.0.3] - 2021-10-22

First PyPI release.

### Fixed
  - Unboxing with `--delete` now correctly removes archives after unboxing.<br>Note: if you pass options to 7za that would prevent (part of) the archive to not be extracted, but still result in a return code of 0, the archive would be removed and its contents lost!

## [0.0.2] - 2021-10-22

First release in the wild.

### Added
  - Core Py7za class wrapping 7za.exe;
  - AsyncIOPool CPU pooling;
  - `py7za-box` CLI tool;
  - Use of pre-installed 7za on Linux;
  - Unit tests.

## [0.0.1] - 2021-08-04

### Added
  - Cloned and adapted from python_package_template.

[Unreleased]: /../../../
[0.1.8]: /../../../tags/0.1.8
[0.1.7]: /../../../tags/0.1.7
[0.1.6]: /../../../tags/0.1.6
[0.1.5]: /../../../tags/0.1.5
[0.1.4]: /../../../tags/0.1.4
[0.1.3]: /../../../tags/0.1.3
[0.1.2]: /../../../tags/0.1.2
[0.1.1]: /../../../tags/0.1.1
[0.1.0]: /../../../tags/0.1.0
[0.0.8]: /../../../tags/0.0.8
[0.0.7]: /../../../tags/0.0.7
[0.0.6]: /../../../tags/0.0.6
[0.0.5]: /../../../tags/0.0.5
[0.0.4]: /../../../tags/0.0.4
[0.0.3]: /../../../tags/0.0.3
[0.0.2]: /../../../tags/0.0.2
[0.0.1]: /../../../tags/0.0.1
